Add Edge streaming docs (#94)
Unleash/unleash-documentation: fern/pages/enterprise-edge/configure-streaming.mdx

---
title: Configure streaming
description: Enable, monitor, and troubleshoot streaming mode for self-hosted Enterprise Edge.
keywords: enterprise edge, streaming, real-time updates, SSE, delta, revision, monitoring, prometheus, alerting
og:site_name: Unleash
og:title: Configure streaming in Enterprise Edge
max-toc-depth: 3
last-updated: May 14, 2026
---

> <Button small outlined className="version-button" href="/support/availability">Edge v20</Button> <Button small href="https://www.getunleash.io/plans" className="cta-button">Enterprise</Button>

Author: ```suggestion
<Button small outlined className="version-button" href="/support/availability">Edge v21</Button> <Button small href="https://www.getunleash.io/plans" className="cta-button">Enterprise</Button>
```

---
title: Configure streaming
description: Enable, monitor, and troubleshoot streaming mode for self-hosted Enterprise Edge.
keywords: enterprise edge, streaming, real-time updates, SSE, delta, revision, monitoring, prometheus, alerting
og:site_name: Unleash
og:title: Configure streaming in Enterprise Edge
max-toc-depth: 3
last-updated: May 14, 2026
---

> <Button small outlined className="version-button" href="/support/availability">Edge v21</Button> <Button small href="https://www.getunleash.io/plans" className="cta-button">Enterprise</Button>

Author: @gastonfournier is v21 correct here?

Reviewer: I think we don't need a major to release a beta, right @sighphyre? But also, we don't need a major to release a new configuration option (when we introduce the non-experimental streaming option)

Reviewer: The specific version is 20.2.2, I was thinking on doing 20.3 once we rolled out and validated the latest changes.

Reviewer: Let's stay on 20.2.2 for now

---
title: Configure streaming
description: Enable, monitor, and troubleshoot streaming mode for self-hosted Enterprise Edge.
keywords: enterprise edge, streaming, real-time updates, SSE, delta, revision, monitoring, prometheus, alerting
og:site_name: Unleash
og:title: Configure streaming in Enterprise Edge
max-toc-depth: 3
last-updated: May 14, 2026
---

<Button small outlined className="version-button" href="/support/availability">Edge v21</Button> <Button small href="https://www.getunleash.io/plans" className="cta-button">Enterprise</Button>

> [Streaming](/unleash-edge#real-time-updates-with-streaming) mode replaces Edge's default polling loop with a persistent connection to upstream Unleash. Feature flag changes are pushed to Edge as they happen, reducing replication lag from the polling interval to near real time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Streaming](/unleash-edge#real-time-updates-with-streaming) mode replaces Edge's default polling loop with a persistent connection to upstream Unleash. Feature flag and segment changes are pushed to Edge as they happen, reducing replication lag from the polling interval to near real time.
```

Reviewer: @sighphyre suggests we leave it off as it's a technical detail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Streaming](/unleash-edge#real-time-updates-with-streaming) mode replaces Edge's default polling loop with a persistent connection to upstream Unleash. Feature changes are pushed to Edge as they happen, reducing replication lag from the polling interval to near real time.
```

This page covers how to enable streaming, monitor the health of streaming Edge instances, and troubleshoot common issues. For the streaming configuration option, see the [configuration reference](/unleash-edge/configure#synchronization-and-polling).

## Prerequisites

> To run Edge in streaming mode, you need:

Reviewer: It looks like Redis is also a prerequisite here, to be reliable. Actually, we should do the same as here: https://unleash-preview-edge-streaming.docs.buildwithfern.com/unleash-edge/deploy#persistence-options which is for polling

- The Enterprise Edge build
- An Unleash Enterprise instance

> - A license that includes Edge streaming

Reviewer: This only matters for self-hosted unleash, because they will need a valid license that includes enterprise edge. 

I think it's also worth mentioning that you'd need v8... unleash-enterprise v7.6.2 almost has all the latest changes except a few... so I'm thinking if we should just require v8.... @sighphyre @chriswk wdyt?

Reviewer: Maybe we should explain the 3 branches:
1. Managed edge, managed Unleash
2. Self hosted edge, managed Unleash
3. Self hosted edge, self hosted Unleash

> - A license that includes Edge streaming

Reviewer 2: There's no special licensing for streaming last I checked (it's been a while since I checked to be honest). Edge at least doesn't care @gastonfournier sanity check me here, did we add a streaming license to Unleash itself?

> - One configured Edge token per environment

Reviewer: This only matters for self-hosted edge cause you have to provision the tokens yourself, if we host edge, we provision the tokens

Reviewer: But they have to contact us to set up the tokens (which is the same they have to do for polling in any case)

## Enable streaming

Start Edge with streaming enabled using either the CLI flag or the environment variable.

<Tabs>
<Tab title="CLI flag">

```shell

> unleash-edge edge --streaming

Reviewer 2: Another up to you but typically in our CLI config options for Edge we specify a complete command that will start Edge. This is as barebones as I can get it to work

```suggestion
unleash-edge edge  --streaming --upstream-url https://your-unleash.com --tokens your-token
```

```

</Tab>
<Tab title="Environment variable">

```shell
STREAMING=true
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Polling is the default mode, so you do not need to explicitly set `STREAMING=false` when you want to use polling.

When streaming is enabled, Edge uses the following upstream endpoints. Make sure both are reachable from Edge:

- `GET /api/client/delta` for initial cache hydration on startup

> - `GET /api/client/streaming` for receiving live updates

Reviewer: This isn't easy to validate because Unleash rejects streaming connections that are not coming from edge. There's a hack to validate this, but I don't know if I want to leak that hack away... 

Maybe one way would be to try to connect a sample edge locally to upstream Unleash... 🤔 
This is how I tested on an invalid instance:
```
$ docker run --rm -p 3063:3063 -e UPSTREAM_URL="${UNLEASH_INSTANCE}" -e TOKENS="${BACKEND_TOKEN}" -e STREAMING=true unleashorg/unleash-edge-enterprise:latest edge      
2026-05-15T07:34:18.576822Z  WARN get_client_features_delta: unleash_edge_http_client: Failed to get features. Url: [https://sandbox.getunleash.io/pro/api/client/delta]. Status code: [404]
2026-05-15T07:34:18.576861Z  INFO unleash_edge_feature_refresh::delta_refresh: Had a bad URL when trying to fetch features. Increasing waiting period for the token before trying again
Error: Received status code 403 Forbidden when trying to send heartbeat to upstream server: License is invalid
```

<Note>

> Edge can also expose `GET /api/client/streaming` to connected SDKs. SDK-to-Edge streaming is in beta, is not available in all SDKs, and is not yet recommended for production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In streaming mode, Edge also enables SDK-to-Edge streaming which is in beta state. This is not available in all SDKs, and is not yet recommended for production environments.
```
Here I'm also avoiding mentioning /streaming. I don't think SDKs use the Delta API to connect via streaming but I wouldn't be surprised if they do.

</Note>

## Runtime behavior

> Once streaming is enabled, Edge keeps using the delta and streaming endpoints until you disable streaming and restart Edge. There is no automatic fallback to polling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once Edge is started with streaming enabled, it stays in that stage as long as the process is running. There is no automatic fallback to polling.
```

> If the upstream connection drops, errors out, or becomes idle, Edge reconnects and resumes from the last event ID it received. While the connection is recovering, Edge keeps serving its last known state to connected SDKs. Temporary network issues recover without operator action.

Reviewer: @sighphyre this could be a problem if the license expires and edge wants to reconnect. While running we've decided not to drop the connection to avoid service disruption, but in this case it does. With polling even if your license is invalid it'd still work

Reviewer: This will be fixed with the backup that will store the license. We should be clear to use either Redis or S3 for backups to prevent service disruption

> If upstream rejects the streaming connection with `401` or `403`, Edge stops trying to reconnect for that token. Edge continues to serve the last state it has, but it does not receive new upstream changes for that token scope until the rejection is resolved and Edge is restarted. The usual causes are an invalid or revoked token, a token that no longer has access to the requested environment or projects, or a missing license for Edge streaming.

Reviewer 2: Tokens can't change scope so I think we should remove that. Not sure what to do with the license info here but this is a bit off. Edge doesn't start without a license, it'll just crash, if that license becomes invalid during run time then Edge will keep its streaming connections open just fine. That can only occur if the Unleash license itself is invalid, that in turn means that no updates are possible so it's a bit of a moot point. I think we should just remove the section on licensing here  

```suggestion
If upstream rejects the streaming connection with `401` or `403`, Edge stops trying to reconnect for that token. Edge continues to serve the last state it has, but it does not receive new upstream changes for that token scope until the rejection is resolved and Edge is restarted. The usual causes are an invalid or revoked token, or a missing license for Edge.
```

> If upstream rejects the streaming connection with `401` or `403`, Edge stops trying to reconnect for that token. Edge continues to serve the last state it has, but it does not receive new upstream changes for that token scope until the rejection is resolved and Edge is restarted. The usual causes are an invalid or revoked token, a token that no longer has access to the requested environment or projects, or a missing license for Edge streaming.

Reviewer: At startup it'd fail to start, if the connection drops. I think I'd like to validate this scenario when first connection succeeded and connection drops and it tries to reconnect

## Monitor streaming health

Streaming is healthy when every Edge instance has applied the same latest revision for a given token scope. All active Edge instances should report the same revision for the same environment and project combination.

> You can inspect this in two ways.

Reviewer: I think this can be rephrased to indicate we provide a way of seeing all your connected edges with their state.

The page lists each registered Edge instance, the tokens it serves, and the revision ID each token has observed. Use this view to answer questions like:

- Which Edge instances are connected
- Which token scopes each instance serves
- Whether one instance is behind the others
- Whether a specific environment or project scope is stale

If one instance reports an older revision than the rest of the fleet for the same token scope, that instance is probably not receiving updates from upstream Unleash.

For more details, see [Enterprise Edge observability](/concepts/enterprise-edge-observability).

</Tab>
<Tab title="Prometheus metric">

Edge exports the latest delta revision it has applied as a Prometheus metric:

```text
delta_revision_id{environment="<environment>",projects="<project-list>"} <revision>
```

Your observability stack may add labels such as `app_name`, `instance_id`, `pod`, `region`, or `cluster`. Use those labels to compare revisions across instances.

Compare revisions across instances by deployment label:

```promql
max by (cluster, namespace, pod, environment, projects) (
  delta_revision_id{job="unleash-edge"}
)
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

> ### Alert on revision drift

Reviewer 2: I think we should take this section out for two reasons, first and most importantly it's hard to read this in any other way than "we think streaming will break in your deployments and that's your problem". Other than that, this is drifting into "how to configure prometheus and I don't think that belongs here. If we want something like this, it's probably in a the deployment section and should be included alongside a bunch of other prom stuff

Reviewer: This should be rephrased to be more about "how do you monitor this thing" and sound less like "this is going to fail and this is how you realize it failed"

Alert when more than one revision is currently reported for the same token scope. This catches the case where at least one Edge instance is stale while other instances have moved forward.

Every region serves the same upstream Unleash state, so the alert should compare all Edge instances that share the same `environment` and `projects` labels.

Example alert expression:

```promql
count_values by (environment, projects) (
  "revision",
  max by (pod, environment, projects) (
    delta_revision_id{job="unleash-edge"}
  )
) > 1
```

Recommended settings:

- Evaluate every minute
- Require the condition to hold for at least five minutes
- Include the affected `environment` and `projects` labels in the notification
- Link the notification to the Enterprise Edge dashboard

## Validate streaming

This section covers three validation activities you can run against a streaming Edge instance: confirming that a flag change reaches Edge, testing reconnection behavior, and comparing nodes in a multi-node deployment.

> ### Confirm a flag change reaches Edge

Reviewer: This section could be a troubleshooting guide and maybe we can change this to use with polling endpoints...

Reviewer: Validate that your setup is healthy by connecting  an SDK to edge in polling mode and see the changes propagate (or use curl against client/features edge)
